system-report.md, before:

[README.md](README.md#sub-section)
[research-notes.md](research-notes.md#sub-section)


![This is an image](/assets/images/ps.png)

# Top Memory Usage

![This is an image](/assets/images/top-HP-henri.png)
From the command above, the option:

    -b : runs top in batch mode
    -o : used to specify fields for sorting processes
    head utility displays the first few lines of a file and
    the -n option is used to specify the number of lines to be displayed.

Note that head utility, by default displays the first ten lines of a file, that is when you do not specify the number of lines to be displayed. Therefore, in the example above, we displayed the first 22 lines of top command output in batch mode.

# iotop – Monitor Linux Disk I/O

![This is an image](/assets/images/iotop.png)

Like <b>“Top”</b> command and <b>“Htop”</b> program, <b>"iotop"</b> is a python program to show you I/O usages data through “Top” like interface. This tool lets you monitor <u>real-time disk I/O and process. Moreover, you can also check the high used disk read and write time for the threads or process</u>.

# iptraf-ng

![This is an image](/assets/images/iptraf-ng.png)

Commit message:

Added vmstat-m.png to system-report.md

system-report.md, after:

[README.md](README.md#sub-section)
[research-notes.md](research-notes.md#sub-section)


- Finding out system bottlenecks
- Disk (storage)
- bottlenecks
- CPU and memory bottlenecks
- Network bottleneck.

![This is an image](/assets/images/ps.png)

# Top Memory Usage

![This is an image](/assets/images/top-HP-henri.png)
<br>From the command above, the option:

    -b : runs top in batch mode
    -o : used to specify fields for sorting processes
    head utility displays the first few lines of a file and
    the -n option is used to specify the number of lines to be displayed.

Note that head utility, by default displays the first ten lines of a file, that is when you do not specify the number of lines to be displayed. Therefore, in the example above, we displayed the first 22 lines of top command output in batch mode.

# Memory Utilization Slabinfo: ##

# vmstat -m : <br>Get Information About Active / Inactive Memory Pages</b>

![This is an image](/assets/images/vmstat-m.png)


# vmstat -a #



# iotop – Monitor Linux Disk I/O

![This is an image](/assets/images/iotop.png)

Like <b>“Top”</b> command and <b>“Htop”</b> program, <b>"iotop"</b> is a python program to show you I/O usages data through “Top” like interface. This tool lets you monitor <u>real-time disk I/O and process. Moreover, you can also check the high used disk read and write time for the threads or process</u>.

# iptraf-ng

![This is an image](/assets/images/iptraf-ng.png)
